h1. Texpand

Texpand is a Prototype-based textarea auto-expander (i.e. the textarea will expand in height as you type).

h2. Compatibility

Texpand has been tested and is known to work in the following browsers:

* Safari 4
* Firefox 3
* Firefox 2
* Opera 9.64
* Internet Explorer 8
* Internet Explorer 7
* Internet Explorer 6

h2. Usage

h3. HTML/JS

Texpand is ridiculously simple to use, simply instantiate a new Texpand with either an _id_ of a textarea or the actual textarea and *BAM* you're done.

<pre><code class="html">
<script type="text/javascript">
  document.observe("dom:loaded", function(){
    new Texpand('bio');
  });
</script>
...
<form action="#" method="post">
  <textarea id="bio" name="bio" rows="3" cols="5"></textarea>
</form>
</code></pre>

It's actually that easy. You can apply any kind of styles you want – everything will be taken care of.

h3. Options

Texpand takes a number of options that you can use to modify its behavior:

|_. Option |_. Default |_. Description |
| autoShrink | false | Determines whether the textarea should shrink in size if text is removed. |
| expandOnFocus | true | When this is _true_ it will expand the textarea to fit the current content when the textarea receives focus. |
| expandOnLoad | false | When this is _true_ it will expand the textarea to fit the default content when instantiated. |
| increment | 15 | The _increment_ can be thought of as the amount of buffer space at the bottom of the textarea. It is expressed as an integer, but it is a pixel value. |
| shrinkOnBlur | true | When this is _true_ it will shrink the textarea to it's initial size the textarea loses focus. |
| tabSize | 4 | Any tab characters that are found in the textarea element will be replaced with _tabSize_ spaces. |

h3. Callbacks

|_. Callback |_. Description |
| onExpand | This is a callback that gets executed after the textarea expands/shrinks. It receives the _keyup_ event as its only parameter. |

h2. Examples

View "the demo":http://code.runlevel6.org/Texpand/. See the _examples/_ directory for demo source.

To see Texpand in production, check out "GigPark":http://www.gigpark.com/.

h2. Authors

Written by "Gianni Chiappetta":http://github.com/giannichiappetta - "Runlevel6":http://www.runlevel6.org/

Contributions by "Rob Sterner":http://github.com/fermion - "robsterner.com":http://robsterner.com/

Contributions by "Michael Harris":http://github.com/mharris - "harrisdev.net":http://harrisdev.net/

Contributions by "Tim Fluehr":http://github.com/tfluehr

h3. Credits

Thanks to "GigPark":http://www.gigpark.com/ for allowing me to release this!
